He's he's a beast, but again, America could guy could go to Walmart.
Nobody knows who the he is. <laugh> wander around.
He's one of the best heavyweight kickboxers of all time. Literally.
Nobody knows who he is. It's strange, you know, without, without question. Yeah.
Yeah. Now, when you were training with Cody, when you were over a team,
alpha male, what, what is coaching like? Like how are they,
how are they doing rounds with him?
Uh, well he was doing his sparring separately. They brought us,
they brought me and Eddie up just to spar with him. Uh, was.
Who was Danny? Like who was coaching him?
Uh, Danny and Danny Castillo.
Danny Castillo and Chris Holsworth. Yeah. So they were essentially his coaches.
They were, yeah, they were coaching him. Okay. Yeah.
And so when you were working with him, were they saying, Hey,
we wanna really work on certain things or were they just letting you do your
thing? Were they asking you to? I.
I was being, you know, I go up there and like I said, I go grapple. Right.
And so I was trying to be a good giving him. Good. Looks, skim the switches,
give him that, like that TJ shoulder move type thing. Did you.
Practice that stuff or did you, no, I.
Just, I just been one of those guys, like when ki, ever since I started with ki,
like, and I've had to help somebody, like give him looks,
who's been that guy and I've been good at it. I've always been.
Did you practice TJ's looks or did you just kind of know how to do it? I, I.
I, I always switch regardless. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
it is one of my favorite things to do just offensively and defensively.
I love switching. Did you.
Have a traditional, a martial arts background?
Did you start out with traditional martial arts? I started with.
Moai. Started with.
Moai. Yeah. Interesting. I started with Moai. Yeah. Yeah. Some the best guys,
you know,
it's interesting now that the switching thing has become almost like a standard
thing. Yeah. Like with TJ, you don't even know what he's doing. You don't.
I mean, he doesn't have like a revert back to stance.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> he might stand south by,
he might stand Orthodox and he can do both equally. Well, yeah.
Well, I'm naturally either right with my, with my left hand naturally,
but I stand Orthodox. I surf Orthodox. I skate, Orthodox.
<Laugh> well, there's a lot of people. I mean, that was what, uh,
Eddie Futch used to, or Emmanuel Stewart rather. Yeah.
Used to teach guys to do that. Yeah. He would take a guy who's right.
Handed and make 'em fight south paw. Yeah. It's like,
you want that lead hand to be your most coordinated hand. Yeah.
Yeah. But we have,
we have pad sessions that I'll just stand softball the whole time and I have no
problem with it. Mm-hmm <affirmative> I, in fact, love sparring softball,
and I love just switching.
Do you feel like your straight left hand has as much power as your straight
right hand? Sometimes even.
More you sometimes even more. Yeah. Yeah. I feel,
I feel like I have power with both hands. Uh,
almost equally just depends on the angle and where I'm catching mm-hmm
<affirmative> sometimes I try, I also try to catch people at the same time as,
as they're trying to get away from my right hand mm-hmm <affirmative> I'll
switch stances and aggressively switch into, into the, uh,
the left hand and may get a power hand. And they,
they think they're getting away from my power hand,
but really they're walking into it and I make him switch into it. Ah, yeah.
Now, so when you were working with Cody mm-hmm <affirmative>, did they,
did they have any requests? Did they say, Hey,
this is what Cody's trying to work on. You know, just.
Really just, I was just switching a lot, trying to give him that,
that switch left, that switch hook that he got caught with last time.
And he was trying to just be a good team man,
and give him the head kicks and that kind of movement.
And he was doing fairly well, um, blocking kicks, coming back, uh,
and trying to wrestle more. But because I, I think they were talking about,
that was one thing that he lacked on the first fight. Not wrestling him enough.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Well.
What happened Saturday was definitely not the game plan. You know, you could,
you could see it's it was,
it wasn't anything like he sparred and it wasn't anything like he trained,
I think emotion absolutely took.
Over. Yeah. So what was their game plan?
I think just piece him up, get him, you know, catch him the first round,
but actually finish the fight. I think that, that would've been more the right,
but obviously kick him a lot. Right. And just get him to walk into something,
try to wrestle him a little bit in there too. I think,
I think TJ came out really smart as well though.
Well, TJ throws himself into the fire too. Yeah, he's not,
he does not play a safe game. Yeah. Oh.
He didn't. He didn't on Saturday. And I, and I think that,
I think that he probably a little surprised by how, um,
just by how unsafe Cody was so early mm-hmm <affirmative> like, I mean,
that exchange at the end. I mean, it's Cody. I mean,
TJ's just blocking and looking and Cody is just going for broken. Right.
Everything he's throwing. Yeah.
Yeah. And we, when we were watching the replays,
you could clearly see the Cody's path was wider.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and it was more strain. Yeah.
And then TJ was more loose and he got there quicker, you know,
and the knock down the first knocked down when he tagged him with the right
hand. That was where really where it came from. Yeah.
They're both thrown at the same time,
but TJ was also doing a better job of getting his head offline mm-hmm
<affirmative> and the thing is like TJ's relationship with Dwayne Ludwig.
Very unusual. It's like, those guys are like glue. I mean, they're,
they're stuck together. Yeah. And Dwayne is a maniac, you know, you know,
Dwayne. Oh, I.
I, I know Dwayne I've known Dwayne a long time. We are friends.
And when we coached against each other that the ultimate fighter,
he literally in the Parkland reminded me that he had the fastest knockout in UFC
history because he was. Like he, he,
he's just one of those guys that.
Who's about. What? Just because.
We were trying to,
he had a training practice that he invited all of Henry's guys to,
but Henry couldn't come. And I was like, well,
I'm gonna have Johnson on come in. And, and Joe, can't come. And he's like, Hey,
listen, I'm gonna whip my Dick out right now. I'm gonna remind you,
I got the fastest knockout in GFC history. So you better calm down boy.
And I'm like, well, okay. But, so he's very emotional.
He's very focused and he's very dedicated to TJ.
So I'm agreeing with you on that, but he will go zero like.
That. Oh yeah. DNEs crazy as. I, I know DNEs very, very, very well.
But what I'm saying is that what is obsessed? Yeah. With,
with TJ's performance and with TJ's improvement.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> when TJ first beat he and morale. Um,
Dwayne sat down with me.
We sat down and we had lunch together that day and he was just,
and it was a big underdog. I mean, he,
and was thought to be the best pound for pound fighter, if not number one,
certainly number two, that.
Was, was insane. That was insane when he did that, I was like, Jesus.
But also the way he did it, he came out so loose.
Like he was sparring mm-hmm <affirmative> he came out like, you know,
like did touch gloves. Like he were gonna do a spar session. Yeah.
And it looked like a guy spared with a a hundred rounds. Yeah. It wasn't,
there was no tension to him. It was very loose. He really loves that.
He loves it. He's a, he's a rise to the occasion kind of guy TJ is.
And that's one of the reasons why I think he really thrived off this rivalry
with Cody, whereas with Cody,
especially because TJ won the first fight and won it by knockout. Yeah.
You know, Cody like had all this tension. Yeah. Whereas TJ had this inner smile,
like through the entire process.
Yeah. No, definitely. I definitely agree with you.
And I think Cody was definitely,
it seemed like he was a little more emotional of the two mm-hmm <affirmative>
and one thing that I,
and we're talking about emotions and fights and everything.
And one thing that I always remember when I get emotional, like even,
and it happens in sparrings sessions and you know,
it might happen in fights and stuff. And I always remember Karen telling me,
you want to be, that's your phone, bro.
That's not me. Don't.
Tell me, can't be me.
How dare you? How dare you shut that piece of.
Now you got Siri going. You don't even know how to use a phone.
And you're one of those dudes. Oh, I know how many film you're one handed it.
Like as if no, one's gonna notice I am I running it outta the way volume.
It's still on <laugh> it's it's dead. I killed it. <laugh> go on gas.
On anyways. I always remember.
I always remember Karen telling me,
cuz I will get emotional at times and I let my,
my Peruvian machismo get in the way. And I was, you know,
especially like it hap it happened a lot with Kevin.
You know like when Kevin first came to see Kevin Ross,
when Kevin first came to CSA, man,
those were <laugh>. I would get beat up a lot.
<laugh> call it tough love. I don't know, know what you wanna call it.
But I would, he would sweep me and beat me up and like, ah, well.
You want him to give it your bet?
And he made me better. He turned me, oh, for,
he turned me into a training partner versus like somebody he had to like,
he didn't baby me at any moment. He, I built, you know,
he built me into what I am saying, but became training partners. And,
but one thing that I always remember from Karen is like,
you don't want to be emotional. You want be like a assassin, you know,
you want to be, you want to go in there and be calculator.
You wanna be yourself.
Cause that's when I fight the best without myself and not,
but not have no emotion involved. Do.
You have any sort of a pre-fight routine that you go through mentally in order
to get yourself into a state of mind like that? You know? Yeah.
Recently since, uh, I, I lost a, I don't know if you watched my,
my last year's fight. My second MMA fight with belt. I got, yes. I saw I got,
I got dropped. I got submitted. You got hit with a wheel kick.
With a wheel kick. Yeah.
I didn't see it come else. And then you got triangled.
I was going through a lot of the time going through a divorce, you know,
very emotional time, uh, of my life last year. And then I had to, you know,
dig deep and rise to the occasion and, you know,
get out of that hole that I was in. Um,
so I started grounding my energy before fights.
I was trying to like trying to visualize and really see myself, you know,
doing the things that I would do because that's,
that's how I got a lot of my knockouts in, in, uh, in lion fight. I could,
it was the weirdest thing I could like, just like visualize and see it.
Like when I knocked out Tyler toner, I saw that happening before the fight even.
And I was like, it felt like a dejavu moment, like, oh. Like I seen this happen.
And I just like tried to like, get us almost I pause.
Can I just remind myself there's another day in the office? And like,
I've had 50, almost 50 fights now. And I just know that it, you know,
regardless of what happens, where I win or lose,
I'm like go out there and give it my best.
But what I try to do is just try to like close my eyes and like, um,
I call it GRA grinding myself.
I visualize like roots coming out of my feet and,
and hands. And I,
I really like ground myself and ground my energy into visualize roots,
like tree roots coming outta. Yeah.
Like tree roots coming outta my hands and coming out my feet.
And I like this last fight was crazy. Actually.
I could visualize it like going all the way into the ring.
And like once I walked in there, it just felt like home.
Oh wow. Crazy.
Yeah. And I don't think I told, I even.
Told him that, is this something that you read how to do?
Or is this something that someone coached you how to do?
Actually, my ex-wife taught me how to do <laugh> funny enough. Uh, yeah.
She taught me how to do that and I, I just, like, I thought I was like,
she's bullshitting anyways. I tried it. And did.
You tried after you got the horse? Yeah. That's hilarious. Yeah. Yeah.
Thanks honey. <laugh> <laugh>.
Yeah.
He got the roots and he got the cats.
You call her up and tell you she was right.
I did. I, I texted her a while back and I was like, you were right.
Like that works. That's fine. And it's crazy. I,
you know that along with some alpha brain, I go out there and I'm like,
I'm ready to rock and roll. I feel at home.
Now what, what I was getting to was that,
that relationship between a coach and athlete,
when it works out great. It's so important. And when you don't have that,
like, I mean,
there's no disrespect for D to Danny Castillo and Chris Holdsworth who are both
were very good fighters. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and I'm, I'm sure a dedicated,
but Dwayne is a different kind of thing. I mean,
he obsesses on various techniques and improvements and footworks and how to
change things and how to, how to set things up. He's he's all day 24, 7.
He never shuts off. Yeah.
And the kind of relationship that Dwayne has with TJ is so rare
and so beneficial mm-hmm <affirmative> but that the chronic relationship,
you guys have this kind of really tight bond between coach and fighter
mm-hmm <affirmative> it.
If it's there's you can win without it mm-hmm <affirmative> but when you have
it, it is just, it's so powerful. It's so powerful. It's so powerful.